[core] Use graceful shutdown path when actor OUT_OF_SCOPE (`del actor`) (#57090)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/actors/terminating-actors.rst

Reviewer: Can you add a link for detached actors?

Author: Yes, these are supposed to be links! In RST, the syntax :ref:text <label>`` creates cross-reference links that appear as clickable hyperlinks when the documentation is built (rendered to HTML), but show as underlined text in the raw .rst file.

> 

Reviewer 2: awesome docs, thank you!

Actor processes will be terminated automatically when all copies of the
actor handle have gone out of scope in Python, or if the original creator
process dies. When actors terminate gracefully, Ray calls the actor's

> ``__ray_shutdown__()`` method if defined, allowing for cleanup of resources.

Reviewer 2: link to the subsection if possible

      is_detached: false
      placement_group_id: null
      repr_name: ''

> Actor cleanup with __ray_shutdown__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Actor cleanup with `__ray_shutdown__`
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When an actor terminates gracefully, Ray calls the ``__ray_shutdown__()`` method
if it exists. Use this method to clean up resources like database connections,

> file handles, or other external resources.

Reviewer 2: let's add a note that it only runs _after_ all tasks finish running

Reviewer 2: not if you call `__ray_terminate__` or `ray.kill` manually

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Python

        .. code-block:: python

            import ray

            @ray.remote
            class DatabaseActor:
                def __init__(self):
                    self.db_connection = connect_to_database()
                    
                def __ray_shutdown__(self):
                    """Called automatically before actor terminates."""
                    if self.db_connection:
                        self.db_connection.close()
                
                def query(self, sql):
                    return self.db_connection.execute(sql)

            actor = DatabaseActor.remote()
            ray.get(actor.query.remote("SELECT * FROM users"))
            del actor  # __ray_shutdown__() is called automatically

When ``__ray_shutdown__()`` is called:

- **Automatic termination**: When all actor handles go out of scope (``del actor`` or natural scope exit)
- **Manual graceful termination**: When you call ``actor.__ray_terminate__.remote()``

When ``__ray_shutdown__()`` is **NOT** called:

> - **Force kill**: When you use ``ray.kill(actor)`` - the actor is killed immediately without cleanup

Reviewer 2: let's remember to update this once it's added as an option 👍

When an actor terminates gracefully, Ray calls the ``__ray_shutdown__()`` method
if it exists, allowing cleanup of resources like database connections or file handles.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Python

        .. testcode::
            :skipif: True

            import ray

            @ray.remote
            class DatabaseActor:
                def __init__(self):
                    self.db_connection = connect_to_database()
                    
                def __ray_shutdown__(self):
                    if self.db_connection:
                        self.db_connection.close()
                
                def query(self, sql):
                    return self.db_connection.execute(sql)

            actor = DatabaseActor.remote()
            ray.get(actor.query.remote("SELECT * FROM users"))
            del actor  # __ray_shutdown__() is called automatically

When ``__ray_shutdown__()`` is called:

- **Automatic termination**: When all actor handles go out of scope (``del actor`` or natural scope exit)
- **Manual graceful termination**: When you call ``actor.__ray_terminate__.remote()``

When ``__ray_shutdown__()`` is **NOT** called:

> - **Force kill**: When you use ``ray.kill(actor)`` - the actor is killed immediately without cleanup.

Author: agree; will create a followup

> - **Unexpected termination**: When the actor process crashes or exits unexpectedly (such as ``os._exit()`` or segfaults).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Unexpected termination**: When the actor process crashes or exits unexpectedly (such as a segfault or being killed by the OOM killer).
```

**Important notes:**

> - ``__ray_shutdown__()`` runs after all actor tasks complete and the actor is idle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``__ray_shutdown__()`` runs after all actor tasks complete.
```
"the actor is idle" is not meaningful and is misleading (users could still have code running on a background thread)
